# Schema inference

Schema inference in warden is currently extremely simple, and will be
made more sophisticated if/when that proves necessary. It operates on
the view markers generated by `warden check` and the metadata they
contain.

# Data

The metadata is generated by `warden check` as follows:

 - Process a view and decode it into a `Vector Text` of raw fields.
 - Run a `choice` parser which attempts to interpret the field as
   various different types, from most to least specific (e.g., Integer
   before Real).
 - Keep a tally of summed observations from each row.

# Compatibility

Schema field types kinda look like a join semilattice under set
inclusion. For example, if a given field is classified as a 
`CategoricalField`, it's not an anomaly (from the fairly limited
perspective of schema inference) if some of its values are classifed
as `LooksBoolean` (e.g., from the set {"true", "false",
"undetermined"}).

Thus, a `FieldLooks` value `v` is said to be compatible with a
`FieldType` `t` if one would expect to see values which look like `v`
in an error-free field of type `t`. For example, the field type
`RealField` is compatible with `LooksIntegral` observations as the
integers are contained within the reals (sorry Liam), but not the
inverse.

# Schema generation

Roughly:

 - Check the markers for incompatibilities (e.g., same number of
   fields), then aggregate them.
 - Starting with an empty set of type-indexed counts C, for each field
   `f` and for every possible field type `t`, for each 
   observation count associated with `f` which is compatible with `t`,
   increment `C_t`.
 - Pick the field type with the highest count if it's greater than an
   arbitrary threshold (say 90%). In case of a tie, pick
   the most specific field type. If no count is greater than the
   threshold, fail.
